Stage 1 — Core ML Basics

    ✅ Goal: Train a simple image classifier locally.

    Learn Python basics (if not already comfortable).

    Install PyTorch.

    Download a dataset (start with CIFAR-10 — much smaller than Food-101).

    Write code to:

    Load images

    Train a small CNN (or use a pretrained ResNet)

    Test accuracy

    👉 Output: A .pt (PyTorch) file with your trained model.

Stage 2 — Make It a Service

    ✅ Goal: Turn your model into a web app.

    Learn FastAPI (very beginner-friendly).

    Write an API endpoint /predict that:

    Accepts an uploaded image

    Runs the model

    Returns predictions as JSON

    👉 Output: You can curl or use Postman to send an image → get back predictions.

Stage 3 — Containerize with Docker

    ✅ Goal: Package your API so it runs anywhere.

    Install Docker.

    Write a Dockerfile for your FastAPI app.

    Build the image and run it:

    docker build -t vision-inference .
    docker run -p 8080:8080 vision-inference


    Test: curl http://localhost:8080/predict with an image.

    👉 Output: A working Docker container with your ML service.

Stage 4 — Deploy on Kubernetes

    ✅ Goal: Run your container in the cloud (or locally with minikube).

    Learn basic Kubernetes concepts (Pods, Services, Deployments, Ingress).

    Write a deployment.yaml and service.yaml for your app.

    Apply with kubectl apply -f deployment.yaml.

    Expose the service and send requests.

    👉 Output: Your ML API is running in Kubernetes.

Stage 5 — Experiment Tracking

    ✅ Goal: Keep track of different model versions.

    Learn about MLflow.

    Add MLflow logging to your training script (log accuracy, loss, and parameters).

    Run multiple experiments and compare results in the MLflow UI.

    👉 Output: You now know which version of your model performs best.

Stage 6 — CI/CD Automation

    ✅ Goal: Automate training + deployment.

    Learn GitHub Actions.

    Create a workflow that:

    Runs tests

    Builds Docker image

    Pushes to registry (DockerHub or AWS ECR)

    Deploys to Kubernetes with Helm

    👉 Output: Every code change → new version automatically deployed.

Stage 7 — Monitoring

    ✅ Goal: Watch system + model performance.

    Install Prometheus + Grafana in your cluster.

    Add FastAPI metrics (e.g., latency, errors).

    Install Evidently or whylogs to check for model/data drift.

    👉 Output: Dashboards showing system health and model health.

Stage 8 — Automation with Pipelines

    ✅ Goal: Fully automated ML lifecycle.

    Install Kubeflow Pipelines (or Prefect if Kubeflow is too heavy).

    Write a pipeline that:

    Loads new data

    Retrains the model

    Evaluates accuracy

    If good → registers new version + redeploys

    👉 Output: Continuous Training & Deployment (CT/CD) like real-world ML systems.

🌟 Summary of Your Learning Path

    Train model locally → Stage 1

    API with FastAPI → Stage 2

    Dockerize service → Stage 3

    Deploy on K8s → Stage 4

    Track experiments (MLflow) → Stage 5

    Automate with CI/CD → Stage 6

    Monitor service + drift → Stage 7

    Automate retraining (Kubeflow) → Stage 8